Book 28 Hosea
001:001 The word of Yahweh that came to Hosea the son of Beeri,
        in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah,
        kings of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash,
        king of Israel.
001:002 When Yahweh spoke at the first by Hosea, Yahweh said
        to Hosea, "Go, take for yourself a wife of prostitution
        and children of unfaithfulness; for the land commits
        great adultery, forsaking Yahweh."
001:003 So he went and took Gomer the daughter of Diblaim;
        and she conceived, and bore him a son.
001:004 Yahweh said to him, "Call his name Jezreel; for yet a little while,
        and I will avenge the blood of Jezreel on the house of Jehu,
        and will cause the kingdom of the house of Israel to cease.
001:005 It will happen in that day that I will break the bow of Israel
        in the valley of Jezreel."
001:006 She conceived again, and bore a daughter.  Then he said to him,
        "Call her name Lo-Ruhamah{Lo-Ruhamah means "not loved."};
        for I will no longer have mercy on the house of Israel,
        that I should in any way pardon them.
001:007 But I will have mercy on the house of Judah, and will save
        them by Yahweh their God, and will not save them by bow,
        sword, battle, horses, or horsemen."
001:008 Now when she had weaned Lo-Ruhamah, she conceived, and bore a son.
001:009 He said, "Call his name Lo-Ammi{Lo-Ammi means "not my people"};
        for you are not my people, and I will not be yours.
001:010 Yet the number of the children of Israel will be as the sand
        of the sea, which can't be measured nor numbered;
        and it will come to pass that, in the place where it was said
        to them, 'You are not my people,' they will be called 'sons
        of the living God.'
001:011 The children of Judah and the children of Israel will be
        gathered together, and they will appoint themselves one head,
        and will go up from the land; for great will be the day of Jezreel.
002:001 "Say to your brothers, 'My people!'{'Ammi' in Hebrew} and to
        your sisters, 'My loved one!'{'Ruhamah' in Hebrew}
002:002 Contend with your mother!  Contend, for she is not my wife,
        neither am I her husband; and let her put away her prostitution
        from her face, and her adulteries from between her breasts;
002:003 Lest I strip her naked, and make her bare as in the day
        that she was born, and make her like a wilderness, and set
        her like a dry land, and kill her with thirst.
002:004 Indeed, on her children I will have no mercy; for they are
        children of unfaithfulness;
002:005 For their mother has played the prostitute.  She who conceived them
        has done shamefully; for she said, 'I will go after my lovers,
        who give me my bread and my water, my wool and my flax,
        my oil and my drink.'
002:006 Therefore, behold, I will hedge up your way with thorns, and I
        will build a wall against her, that she can't find her way.
002:007 She will follow after her lovers, but she won't overtake them;
        and she will seek them, but won't find them.
        Then she will say, 'I will go and return to my first husband;
        for then was it better with me than now.'
002:008 For she did not know that I gave her the grain, the new wine,
        and the oil, and multiplied to her silver and gold, which they
        used for Baal.
002:009 Therefore I will take back my grain in its time, and my new
        wine in its season, and will pluck away my wool and my flax
        which should have covered her nakedness.
002:010 Now I will uncover her lewdness in the sight of her lovers,
        and no one will deliver her out of my hand.
002:011 I will also cause all her celebrations to cease:  her feasts,
        her new moons, her Sabbaths, and all her solemn assemblies.
002:012 I will lay waste her vines and her fig trees, about which she
        has said, 'These are my wages that my lovers have given me;
        and I will make them a forest,' and the animals of the field
        shall eat them.
002:013 I will visit on her the days of the Baals, to which she burned
        incense, when she decked herself with her earrings and her jewels,
        and went after her lovers, and forgot me," says Yahweh.
002:014 "Therefore, behold, I will allure her, and bring her into
        the wilderness, and speak tenderly to her.
002:015 I will give her vineyards from there, and the valley
        of Achor for a door of hope; and she will respond there,
        as in the days of her youth, and as in the day when she came
        up out of the land of Egypt.
002:016 It will be in that day," says Yahweh, "that you will call me
        'my husband,' and no longer call me 'my master.'
002:017 For I will take away the names of the Baals out of her mouth,
        and they will no longer be mentioned by name.
002:018 In that day I will make a covenant for them with the animals
        of the field, and with the birds of the sky, and with
        the creeping things of the ground.  I will break the bow,
        the sword, and the battle out of the land, and will make them
        lie down safely.
002:019 I will betroth you to me forever.  Yes, I will betroth you
        to me in righteousness, in justice, in loving kindness,
        and in compassion.
002:020 I will even betroth you to me in faithfulness; and you
        shall know Yahweh.
002:021 It will happen in that day, I will respond," says Yahweh, "I will
        respond to the heavens, and they will respond to the earth;
002:022 and the earth will respond to the grain, and the new wine,
        and the oil; and they will respond to Jezreel.
002:023 I will sow her to me in the earth; and I will have mercy on her
        who had not obtained mercy; and I will tell those who were not
        my people, 'You are my people;' and they will say, 'My God!'"
003:001 Yahweh said to me, "Go again, love a woman loved by another,
        and an adulteress, even as Yahweh loves the children of Israel,
        though they turn to other gods, and love cakes of raisins."
003:002 So I bought her for myself for fifteen pieces of silver
        and a homer and a half of barley.
003:003 I said to her, "You shall stay with me many days.  You shall not
        play the prostitute, and you shall not be with any other man.
        I will also be so toward you."
003:004 For the children of Israel shall abide many days without king,
        and without prince, and without sacrifice, and without
        sacred stone, and without ephod or idols.
003:005 Afterward the children of Israel shall return, and seek Yahweh
        their God, and David their king, and shall come with trembling
        to Yahweh and to his blessings in the last days.
004:001 Hear the word of Yahweh, you children of Israel;
        for Yahweh has a charge against the inhabitants of the land:
        "Indeed there is no truth, nor goodness, nor knowledge of God
        in the land.
004:002 There is cursing, lying, murder, stealing, and committing adultery;
        they break boundaries, and bloodshed causes bloodshed.
004:003 Therefore the land will mourn, and everyone who dwells therein
        will waste away.  all living things in her, even the animals
        of the field and the birds of the sky; yes, the fish of
        the sea also die.
004:004 "Yet let no man bring a charge, neither let any man accuse;
        For your people are like those who bring charges against a priest.
004:005 You will stumble in the day, and the prophet will also stumble
        with you in the night; and I will destroy your mother.
004:006 My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge.
        Because you have rejected knowledge, I will also reject you,
        that you may be no priest to me.  Because you have forgotten
        your God's law, I will also forget your children.
004:007 As they were multiplied, so they sinned against me.
        I will change their glory into shame.
004:008 They feed on the sin of my people, and set their heart
        on their iniquity.
004:009 It will be, like people, like priest; and I will punish them
        for their ways, and will repay them for their deeds.
004:010 They will eat, and not have enough.  They will play the prostitute,
        and will not increase; because they have abandoned
        giving to Yahweh.
004:011 Prostitution, wine, and new wine take away understanding.
004:012 My people consult with their wooden idol, and answer to a stick
        of wood.  Indeed the spirit of prostitution has led them astray,
        and they have been unfaithful to their God.
004:013 They sacrifice on the tops of the mountains, and burn incense
        on the hills, under oaks and poplars and terebinths, because its
        shade is good.  Therefore your daughters play the prostitute,
        and your brides commit adultery.
004:014 I will not punish your daughters when they play the prostitute,
        nor your brides when they commit adultery; because the men consort
        with prostitutes, and they sacrifice with the shrine prostitutes;
        so the people without understanding will come to ruin.
004:015 "Though you, Israel, play the prostitute, yet don't let Judah offend;
        and don't come to Gilgal, neither go up to Beth Aven, nor swear,
        'As Yahweh lives.'
004:016 For Israel has behaved extremely stubbornly, like a stubborn heifer.
        Then how will Yahweh feed them like a lamb in a meadow.
004:017 Ephraim is joined to idols.  Leave him alone!
004:018 Their drink has become sour.  They play the prostitute continually.
        Her rulers dearly love their shameful way.
004:019 The wind has wrapped her up in its wings; and they shall
        be disappointed because of their sacrifices.
005:001 "Listen to this, you priests!  Listen, house of Israel,
        and give ear, house of the king!  For the judgment is against you;
        for you have been a snare at Mizpah, and a net spread on Tabor.
005:002 The rebels are deep in slaughter; but I discipline all of them.
005:003 I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hidden from me;
        for now, Ephraim, you have played the prostitute.
        Israel is defiled.
005:004 Their deeds won't allow them to turn to their God; for the spirit
        of prostitution is within them, and they don't know Yahweh.
005:005 The pride of Israel testifies to his face.
        Therefore Israel and Ephraim will stumble in their iniquity.
        Judah also will stumble with them.
005:006 They will go with their flocks and with their herds to seek Yahweh;
        but they won't find him.  He has withdrawn himself from them.
005:007 They are unfaithful to Yahweh; for they have borne
        illegitimate children.  Now the new moon will devour them
        with their fields.
005:008 "Blow the cornet in Gibeah, and the trumpet in Ramah!  Sound a
        battle cry at Beth Aven, behind you, Benjamin!
005:009 Ephraim will become a desolation in the day of rebuke.
        Among the tribes of Israel, I have made known that which
        will surely be.
005:010 The princes of Judah are like those who remove a landmark.
        I will pour out my wrath on them like water.
005:011 Ephraim is oppressed, he is crushed in judgment; Because he is
        intent in his pursuit of idols.
005:012 Therefore I am to Ephraim like a moth, and to the house
        of Judah like rottenness.
005:013 "When Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah his wound,
        Then Ephraim went to Assyria, and sent to king Jareb:
        but he is not able to heal you, neither will he cure you
        of your wound.
005:014 For I will be to Ephraim like a lion, and like a young lion to
        the house of Judah.  I myself will tear in pieces and go away.
        I will carry off, and there will be no one to deliver.
005:015 I will go and return to my place, until they acknowledge
        their offense, and seek my face.  In their affliction they
        will seek me earnestly."
006:001 "Come, and let us return to Yahweh; for he has torn us to pieces,
        and he will heal us; he has injured us, and he will bind
        up our wounds.
006:002 After two days he will revive us.  On the third day he will
        raise us up, and we will live before him.
006:003 Let us acknowledge Yahweh.  Let us press on to know Yahweh.
        As surely as the sun rises, Yahweh will appear.
        He will come to us like the rain, like the spring rain
        that waters the earth."
006:004 "Ephraim, what shall I do to you?  Judah, what shall I do to you?
        For your love is like a morning cloud, and like the dew
        that disappears early.
006:005 Therefore I have cut them to pieces with the prophets;
        I killed them with the words of my mouth.  Your judgments
        are like a flash of lightning.
006:006 For I desire mercy, and not sacrifice; and the knowledge of God
        more than burnt offerings.
006:007 But they, like Adam, have broken the covenant.
        They were unfaithful to me, there.
006:008 Gilead is a city of those who work iniquity; it is
        stained with blood.
006:009 As gangs of robbers wait to ambush a man, so the company of priests
        murder in the way toward Shechem, committing shameful crimes.
006:010 In the house of Israel I have seen a horrible thing.
        There is prostitution in Ephraim.  Israel is defiled.
006:011 "Also, Judah, there is a harvest appointed for you, when I
        restore the fortunes of my people.
007:001 When I would heal Israel, then the iniquity of Ephraim is uncovered,
        also the wickedness of Samaria; for they commit falsehood,
        and the thief enters in, and the gang of robbers ravages outside.
007:002 They don't consider in their hearts that I remember all
        their wickedness.  Now their own deeds have engulfed them.
        They are before my face.
007:003 They make the king glad with their wickedness, and the princes
        with their lies.
007:004 They are all adulterers.  They are burning like an oven that
        the baker stops stirring, from the kneading of the dough,
        until it is leavened.
007:005 On the day of our king, the princes made themselves sick
        with the heat of wine.  He joined his hand with mockers.
007:006 For they have made ready their heart like an oven,
        while they lie in wait.  Their baker sleeps all the night.
        In the morning it burns as a flaming fire.
007:007 They are all hot as an oven, and devour their judges.
        All their kings have fallen.  There is no one among them
        who calls to me.
007:008 Ephraim, he mixes himself among the nations.  Ephraim is
        a pancake not turned over.
007:009 Strangers have devoured his strength, and he doesn't
        realize it.  Indeed, gray hairs are here and there on him,
        and he doesn't realize it.
007:010 The pride of Israel testifies to his face; yet they haven't
        returned to Yahweh their God, nor sought him, for all this.
007:011 "Ephraim is like an easily deceived dove, without understanding.
        They call to Egypt.  They go to Assyria.
007:012 When they go, I will spread my net on them.  I will bring
        them down like the birds of the sky.  I will chastise them,
        as their congregation has heard.
007:013 Woe to them!  For they have wandered from me.  Destruction to them!
        For they have trespassed against me.  Though I would redeem them,
        yet they have spoken lies against me.
007:014 They haven't cried to me with their heart, but they howl on
        their beds.  They assemble themselves for grain and new wine.
        They turn away from me.
007:015 Though I have taught and strengthened their arms, yet they
        plot evil against me.
007:016 They return, but not to the Most High.  They are like a faulty bow.
        Their princes will fall by the sword for the rage of their tongue.
        This will be their derision in the land of Egypt.
008:001 "Put the trumpet to your lips!  Something like an eagle is
        over Yahweh's house, because they have broken my covenant,
        and rebelled against my law.
008:002 They cry to me, 'My God, we Israel acknowledge you!'
008:003 Israel has cast off that which is good.  The enemy will pursue him.
008:004 They have set up kings, but not by me.  They have made princes,
        and I didn't approve.  Of their silver and their gold they
        have made themselves idols, that they may be cut off.
008:005 Let Samaria throw out his calf idol!  My anger burns against them!
        How long will it be until they are capable of purity?
008:006 For this is even from Israel!  The workman made it, and it is
        no God; indeed, the calf of Samaria shall be broken in pieces.
008:007 For they sow the wind, and they will reap the whirlwind.
        He has no standing grain.  The stalk will yield no head.
        If it does yield, strangers will swallow it up.
008:008 Israel is swallowed up.  Now they are among the nations
        like a worthless thing.
008:009 For they have gone up to Assyria, like a wild donkey wandering alone.
        Ephraim has hired lovers for himself.
008:010 But although they sold themselves among the nations,
        I will now gather them; and they begin to waste away because
        of the oppression of the king of mighty ones.
008:011 Because Ephraim has multiplied altars for sinning, they became
        for him altars for sinning.
008:012 I wrote for him the many things of my law; but they were regarded
        as a strange thing.
008:013 As for the sacrifices of my offerings, they sacrifice
        flesh and eat it; But Yahweh doesn't accept them.
        Now he will remember their iniquity, and punish their sins.
        They will return to Egypt.
008:014 For Israel has forgotten his Maker and built palaces;
        and Judah has multiplied fortified cities; but I will send
        a fire on his cities, and it will devour its fortresses."
009:001 Don't rejoice, Israel, to jubilation like the nations;
        for you were unfaithful to your God.  You love the wages
        of a prostitute at every grain threshing floor.
009:002 The threshing floor and the winepress won't feed them,
        and the new wine will fail her.
009:003 They won't dwell in Yahweh's land; but Ephraim will return
        to Egypt, and they will eat unclean food in Assyria.
009:004 They won't pour out wine offerings to Yahweh, neither will
        they be pleasing to him.  Their sacrifices will be to them
        like the bread of mourners; all who eat of it will be polluted;
        for their bread will be for their appetite.  It will not come
        into the house of Yahweh.
009:005 What will you do in the day of solemn assembly, and in the day
        of the feast of Yahweh?
009:006 For, behold, they have gone away from destruction.
        Egypt will gather them up.  Memphis will bury them.
        Nettles will possess their pleasant things of silver.
        Thorns will be in their tents.
009:007 The days of visitation have come.  The days of reckoning have come.
        Israel will consider the prophet to be a fool, and the man who is
        inspired to be insane, because of the abundance of your sins,
        and because your hostility is great.
009:008 A prophet watches over Ephraim with my God.  A fowler's snare
        is on all of his paths, and hostility in the house of his God.
009:009 They have deeply corrupted themselves, as in the days of Gibeah.
        He will remember their iniquity.  He will punish them
        for their sins.
009:010 I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness.  I saw your
        fathers as the first ripe in the fig tree at its first season;
        but they came to Baal Peor, and consecrated themselves
        to the shameful thing, and became abominable like that
        which they loved.
009:011 As for Ephraim, their glory will fly away like a bird.
        There will be no birth, none with child, and no conception.
009:012 Though they bring up their children, yet I will bereave them,
        so that not a man shall be left.  Indeed, woe also to them
        when I depart from them!
009:013 I have seen Ephraim, like Tyre, planted in a pleasant place;
        but Ephraim will bring out his children to the murderer.
009:014 Give them--Yahweh what will you give?  Give them a miscarrying
        womb and dry breasts.
009:015 "All their wickedness is in Gilgal; for there I hated them.
        Because of the wickedness of their deeds I will drive
        them out of my house!  I will love them no more.
        All their princes are rebels.
009:016 Ephraim is struck.  Their root has dried up.  They will bear
        no fruit.  Even though they bring forth, yet I will kill
        the beloved ones of their womb."
009:017 My God will cast them away, because they did not listen to him;
        and they will be wanderers among the nations.
010:001 Israel is a luxuriant vine that puts forth his fruit.
        According to the abundance of his fruit he has multiplied
        his altars.  As their land has prospered, they have adorned
        their sacred stones.
010:002 Their heart is divided.  Now they will be found guilty.
        He will demolish their altars.  He will destroy their sacred stones.
010:003 Surely now they will say, "We have no king; for we don't fear Yahweh;
        and the king, what can he do for us?"
010:004 They make promises, swearing falsely in making covenants.
        Therefore judgment springs up like poisonous weeds in the furrows
        of the field.
010:005 The inhabitants of Samaria will be in terror for the calves
        of Beth Aven; for its people will mourn over it, Along with
        its priests who rejoiced over it, for its glory, because it
        has departed from it.
010:006 It also will be carried to Assyria for a present to a great king.
        Ephraim will receive shame, and Israel will be ashamed
        of his own counsel.
010:007 Samaria and her king float away, like a twig on the water.
010:008 The high places also of Aven, the sin of Israel, will be destroyed.
        The thorn and the thistle will come up on their altars.
        They will tell the mountains, "Cover us!" and the hills,
        "Fall on us!"
010:009 "Israel, you have sinned from the days of Gibeah.
        There they remained.  The battle against the children
        of iniquity doesn't overtake them in Gibeah.
010:010 When it is my desire, I will chastise them; and the nations
        will be gathered against them, when they are bound to
        their two transgressions.
010:011 Ephraim is a trained heifer that loves to thresh; so I will put
        a yoke on her beautiful neck.  I will set a rider on Ephraim.
        Judah will plow.  Jacob will break his clods.
010:012 Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap according to kindness.
        Break up your fallow ground; for it is time to seek Yahweh,
        until he comes and rains righteousness on you.
010:013 You have plowed wickedness.  You have reaped iniquity.
        You have eaten the fruit of lies, for you trusted in your way,
        in the multitude of your mighty men.
010:014 Therefore a battle roar will arise among your people,
        and all your fortresses will be destroyed, as Shalman destroyed
        Beth Arbel in the day of battle.  The mother was dashed
        in pieces with her children.
010:015 So Bethel will do to you because of your great wickedness.
        At daybreak the king of Israel will be destroyed.
011:001 "When Israel was a child, then I loved him, and called my son
        out of Egypt.
011:002 They called to them, so they went from them.  They sacrificed
        to the Baals, and burned incense to engraved images.
011:003 Yet I taught Ephraim to walk.  I took them by his arms;
        but they didn't know that I healed them.
011:004 I drew them with cords of a man, with ties of love; and I
        was to them like those who lift up the yoke on their necks;
        and I bent down to him and I fed him.
011:005 "They won't return into the land of Egypt; but the Assyrian
        will be their king, because they refused to repent.
011:006 The sword will fall on their cities, and will destroy the bars
        of their gates, and will put an end to their plans.
011:007 My people are determined to turn from me.  Though they call
        to the Most High, he certainly won't exalt them.
011:008 "How can I give you up, Ephraim?  How can I hand
        you over, Israel?  How can I make you like Admah?  How can
        I make you like Zeboiim?  My heart is turned within me,
        my compassion is aroused.
011:009 I will not execute the fierceness of my anger.  I will not
        return to destroy Ephraim:  for I am God, and not man;
        the Holy One in the midst of you; and I will not come in wrath.
011:010 They will walk after Yahweh, who will roar like a lion;
        for he will roar, and the children will come trembling
        from the west.
011:011 They will come trembling like a bird out of Egypt, and like
        a dove out of the land of Assyria; and I will settle them
        in their houses," says Yahweh.
011:012 Ephraim surrounds me with falsehood, and the house of Israel
        with deceit.  Judah still strays from God, and is unfaithful
        to the Holy One.
012:001 Ephraim feeds on wind, and chases the east wind.
        He continually multiplies lies and desolation.  They make
        a covenant with Assyria, and oil is carried into Egypt.
012:002 Yahweh also has a controversy with Judah, and will punish Jacob
        according to his ways; according to his deeds he will repay him.
012:003 In the womb he took his brother by the heel; and in his manhood
        he contended with God.
012:004 Indeed, he struggled with the angel, and prevailed; he wept,
        and made supplication to him.  He found him at Bethel,
        and there he spoke with us,
012:005 even Yahweh, the God of Armies; Yahweh is his name of renown!
012:006 Therefore turn to your God.  Keep kindness and justice,
        and wait continually for your God.
012:007 A merchant has dishonest scales in his hand.  He loves to defraud.
012:008 Ephraim said, "Surely I have become rich, I have found myself wealth.
        In all my wealth they won't find in me any iniquity that is sin."
012:009 "But I am Yahweh your God from the land of Egypt.
        I will yet again make you dwell in tents, as in the days
        of the solemn feast.
012:010 I have also spoken to the prophets, and I have multiplied visions;
        and by the ministry of the prophets I have used parables.
012:011 If Gilead is wicked, surely they are worthless.  In Gilgal
        they sacrifice bulls.  Indeed, their altars are like heaps
        in the furrows of the field.
012:012 Jacob fled into the country of Aram, and Israel served to get
        a wife, and for a wife he tended flocks and herds.
012:013 By a prophet Yahweh brought Israel up out of Egypt, and by a
        prophet he was preserved.
012:014 Ephraim has bitterly provoked anger.  Therefore his blood
        will be left on him, and his Lord will repay his contempt.
013:001 When Ephraim spoke, there was trembling.  He exalted himself
        in Israel, but when he became guilty in Baal, he died.
013:002 Now they sin more and more, and have made themselves molten
        images of their silver, even idols according to their
        own understanding, all of them the work of the craftsmen.
        They say of them, 'They offer human sacrifice and kiss the calves.'
013:003 Therefore they will be like the morning mist, and like the dew
        that passes away early, like the chaff that is driven with
        the whirlwind out of the threshing floor, and like the smoke
        out of the chimney.
013:004 "Yet I am Yahweh your God from the land of Egypt; and you shall
        acknowledge no god but me, and besides me there is no savior.
013:005 I knew you in the wilderness, in the land of great drought.
013:006 According to their pasture, so were they filled; they were filled,
        and their heart was exalted.  Therefore they have forgotten me.
013:007 Therefore I am like a lion to them.  Like a leopard, I will
        lurk by the path.
013:008 I will meet them like a bear that is bereaved of her cubs,
        and will tear the covering of their heart.  There I will devour
        them like a lioness.  The wild animal will tear them.
013:009 You are destroyed, Israel, because you are against me,
        against your help.
013:010 Where is your king now, that he may save you in all your cities?
        And your judges, of whom you said, 'Give me a king and princes?'
013:011 I have given you a king in my anger, and have taken him away
        in my wrath.
013:012 The guilt of Ephraim is stored up.  His sin is stored up.
013:013 The sorrows of a travailing woman will come on him.
        He is an unwise son; for when it is time, he doesn't come
        to the opening of the womb.
013:014 I will ransom them from the power of Sheol.  I will redeem them
        from death!  Death, where are your plagues?  Sheol, where is
        your destruction?  "Compassion will be hidden from my eyes.
013:015 Though he is fruitful among his brothers, an east wind will come,
        the breath of Yahweh coming up from the wilderness; and his
        spring will become dry, and his fountain will be dried up.
        He will plunder the storehouse of treasure.
013:016 Samaria will bear her guilt; for she has rebelled against her God.
        They will fall by the sword.  Their infants will be dashed
        in pieces, and their pregnant women will be ripped open."
014:001 Israel, return to Yahweh your God; for you have fallen because
        of your sin.
014:002 Take words with you, and return to Yahweh.  Tell him,
        "Forgive all our sins, and accept that which is good:
        so we offer our lips like bulls.
014:003 Assyria can't save us.  We won't ride on horses; neither will
        we say any more to the work of our hands, 'Our gods!'
        for in you the fatherless finds mercy."
014:004 "I will heal their waywardness.  I will love them freely;
        for my anger is turned away from him.
014:005 I will be like the dew to Israel.  He will blossom like the lily,
        and send down his roots like Lebanon.
014:006 His branches will spread, and his beauty will be like the olive tree,
        and his fragrance like Lebanon.
014:007 Men will dwell in his shade.  They will revive like the grain,
        and blossom like the vine.  Their fragrance will be like
        the wine of Lebanon.
014:008 Ephraim, what have I to do any more with idols?  I answer,
        and will take care of him.  I am like a green fir tree;
        from me your fruit is found."
014:009 Who is wise, that he may understand these things?
        Who is prudent, that he may know them?  For the ways of Yahweh
        are right, and the righteous walk in them; But the rebellious
        stumble in them.
Hosea


1:1 The word of the LORD that came unto Hosea, the son of Beeri, in
the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and in
the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel.

1:2 The beginning of the word of the LORD by Hosea. And the LORD said
to Hosea, Go, take unto thee a wife of whoredoms and children of
whoredoms: for the land hath committed great whoredom, departing from
the LORD.

1:3 So he went and took Gomer the daughter of Diblaim; which
conceived, and bare him a son.

1:4 And the LORD said unto him, Call his name Jezreel; for yet a
little while, and I will avenge the blood of Jezreel upon the house of
Jehu, and will cause to cease the kingdom of the house of Israel.

1:5 And it shall come to pass at that day, that I will break the bow
of Israel, in the valley of Jezreel.

1:6 And she conceived again, and bare a daughter. And God said unto
him, Call her name Loruhamah: for I will no more have mercy upon the
house of Israel; but I will utterly take them away.

1:7 But I will have mercy upon the house of Judah, and will save them
by the LORD their God, and will not save them by bow, nor by sword,
nor by battle, by horses, nor by horsemen.

1:8 Now when she had weaned Loruhamah, she conceived, and bare a son.

1:9 Then said God, Call his name Loammi: for ye are not my people, and
I will not be your God.

1:10 Yet the number of the children of Israel shall be as the sand of
the sea, which cannot be measured nor numbered; and it shall come to
pass, that in the place where it was said unto them, Ye are not my
people, there it shall be said unto them, Ye are the sons of the
living God.

1:11 Then shall the children of Judah and the children of Israel be
gathered together, and appoint themselves one head, and they shall
come up out of the land: for great shall be the day of Jezreel.

2:1 Say ye unto your brethren, Ammi; and to your sisters, Ruhamah.

2:2 Plead with your mother, plead: for she is not my wife, neither am
I her husband: let her therefore put away her whoredoms out of her
sight, and her adulteries from between her breasts; 2:3 Lest I strip
her naked, and set her as in the day that she was born, and make her
as a wilderness, and set her like a dry land, and slay her with
thirst.

2:4 And I will not have mercy upon her children; for they be the
children of whoredoms.

2:5 For their mother hath played the harlot: she that conceived them
hath done shamefully: for she said, I will go after my lovers, that
give me my bread and my water, my wool and my flax, mine oil and my
drink.

2:6 Therefore, behold, I will hedge up thy way with thorns, and make a
wall, that she shall not find her paths.

2:7 And she shall follow after her lovers, but she shall not overtake
them; and she shall seek them, but shall not find them: then shall she
say, I will go and return to my first husband; for then was it better
with me than now.

2:8 For she did not know that I gave her corn, and wine, and oil, and
multiplied her silver and gold, which they prepared for Baal.

2:9 Therefore will I return, and take away my corn in the time
thereof, and my wine in the season thereof, and will recover my wool
and my flax given to cover her nakedness.

2:10 And now will I discover her lewdness in the sight of her lovers,
and none shall deliver her out of mine hand.

2:11 I will also cause all her mirth to cease, her feast days, her new
moons, and her sabbaths, and all her solemn feasts.

2:12 And I will destroy her vines and her fig trees, whereof she hath
said, These are my rewards that my lovers have given me: and I will
make them a forest, and the beasts of the field shall eat them.

2:13 And I will visit upon her the days of Baalim, wherein she burned
incense to them, and she decked herself with her earrings and her
jewels, and she went after her lovers, and forgat me, saith the LORD.

2:14 Therefore, behold, I will allure her, and bring her into the
wilderness, and speak comfortably unto her.

2:15 And I will give her her vineyards from thence, and the valley of
Achor for a door of hope: and she shall sing there, as in the days of
her youth, and as in the day when she came up out of the land of
Egypt.

2:16 And it shall be at that day, saith the LORD, that thou shalt call
me Ishi; and shalt call me no more Baali.

2:17 For I will take away the names of Baalim out of her mouth, and
they shall no more be remembered by their name.

2:18 And in that day will I make a covenant for them with the beasts
of the field and with the fowls of heaven, and with the creeping
things of the ground: and I will break the bow and the sword and the
battle out of the earth, and will make them to lie down safely.

2:19 And I will betroth thee unto me for ever; yea, I will betroth
thee unto me in righteousness, and in judgment, and in lovingkindness,
and in mercies.

2:20 I will even betroth thee unto me in faithfulness: and thou shalt
know the LORD.

2:21 And it shall come to pass in that day, I will hear, saith the
LORD, I will hear the heavens, and they shall hear the earth; 2:22 And
the earth shall hear the corn, and the wine, and the oil; and they
shall hear Jezreel.

2:23 And I will sow her unto me in the earth; and I will have mercy
upon her that had not obtained mercy; and I will say to them which
were not my people, Thou art my people; and they shall say, Thou art
my God.

3:1 Then said the LORD unto me, Go yet, love a woman beloved of her
friend, yet an adulteress, according to the love of the LORD toward
the children of Israel, who look to other gods, and love flagons of
wine.

3:2 So I bought her to me for fifteen pieces of silver, and for an
homer of barley, and an half homer of barley: 3:3 And I said unto her,
Thou shalt abide for me many days; thou shalt not play the harlot, and
thou shalt not be for another man: so will I also be for thee.

3:4 For the children of Israel shall abide many days without a king,
and without a prince, and without a sacrifice, and without an image,
and without an ephod, and without teraphim: 3:5 Afterward shall the
children of Israel return, and seek the LORD their God, and David
their king; and shall fear the LORD and his goodness in the latter
days.

4:1 Hear the word of the LORD, ye children of Israel: for the LORD
hath a controversy with the inhabitants of the land, because there is
no truth, nor mercy, nor knowledge of God in the land.

4:2 By swearing, and lying, and killing, and stealing, and committing
adultery, they break out, and blood toucheth blood.

4:3 Therefore shall the land mourn, and every one that dwelleth
therein shall languish, with the beasts of the field, and with the
fowls of heaven; yea, the fishes of the sea also shall be taken away.

4:4 Yet let no man strive, nor reprove another: for thy people are as
they that strive with the priest.

4:5 Therefore shalt thou fall in the day, and the prophet also shall
fall with thee in the night, and I will destroy thy mother.

4:6 My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because thou hast
rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no
priest to me: seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I will
also forget thy children.

4:7 As they were increased, so they sinned against me: therefore will
I change their glory into shame.

4:8 They eat up the sin of my people, and they set their heart on
their iniquity.

4:9 And there shall be, like people, like priest: and I will punish
them for their ways, and reward them their doings.

4:10 For they shall eat, and not have enough: they shall commit
whoredom, and shall not increase: because they have left off to take
heed to the LORD.

4:11 Whoredom and wine and new wine take away the heart.

4:12 My people ask counsel at their stocks, and their staff declareth
unto them: for the spirit of whoredoms hath caused them to err, and
they have gone a whoring from under their God.

4:13 They sacrifice upon the tops of the mountains, and burn incense
upon the hills, under oaks and poplars and elms, because the shadow
thereof is good: therefore your daughters shall commit whoredom, and
your spouses shall commit adultery.

4:14 I will not punish your daughters when they commit whoredom, nor
your spouses when they commit adultery: for themselves are separated
with whores, and they sacrifice with harlots: therefore the people
that doth not understand shall fall.

4:15 Though thou, Israel, play the harlot, yet let not Judah offend;
and come not ye unto Gilgal, neither go ye up to Bethaven, nor swear,
The LORD liveth.

4:16 For Israel slideth back as a backsliding heifer: now the LORD
will feed them as a lamb in a large place.

4:17 Ephraim is joined to idols: let him alone.

4:18 Their drink is sour: they have committed whoredom continually:
her rulers with shame do love, Give ye.

4:19 The wind hath bound her up in her wings, and they shall be
ashamed because of their sacrifices.

5:1 Hear ye this, O priests; and hearken, ye house of Israel; and give
ye ear, O house of the king; for judgment is toward you, because ye
have been a snare on Mizpah, and a net spread upon Tabor.

5:2 And the revolters are profound to make slaughter, though I have
been a rebuker of them all.

5:3 I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hid from me: for now, O Ephraim,
thou committest whoredom, and Israel is defiled.

5:4 They will not frame their doings to turn unto their God: for the
spirit of whoredoms is in the midst of them, and they have not known
the LORD.

5:5 And the pride of Israel doth testify to his face: therefore shall
Israel and Ephraim fall in their iniquity: Judah also shall fall with
them.

5:6 They shall go with their flocks and with their herds to seek the
LORD; but they shall not find him; he hath withdrawn himself from
them.

5:7 They have dealt treacherously against the LORD: for they have
begotten strange children: now shall a month devour them with their
portions.

5:8 Blow ye the cornet in Gibeah, and the trumpet in Ramah: cry aloud
at Bethaven, after thee, O Benjamin.

5:9 Ephraim shall be desolate in the day of rebuke: among the tribes
of Israel have I made known that which shall surely be.

5:10 The princes of Judah were like them that remove the bound:
therefore I will pour out my wrath upon them like water.

5:11 Ephraim is oppressed and broken in judgment, because he willingly
walked after the commandment.

5:12 Therefore will I be unto Ephraim as a moth, and to the house of
Judah as rottenness.

5:13 When Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah saw his wound, then went
Ephraim to the Assyrian, and sent to king Jareb: yet could he not heal
you, nor cure you of your wound.

5:14 For I will be unto Ephraim as a lion, and as a young lion to the
house of Judah: I, even I, will tear and go away; I will take away,
and none shall rescue him.

5:15 I will go and return to my place, till they acknowledge their
offence, and seek my face: in their affliction they will seek me
early.

6:1 Come, and let us return unto the LORD: for he hath torn, and he
will heal us; he hath smitten, and he will bind us up.

6:2 After two days will he revive us: in the third day he will raise
us up, and we shall live in his sight.

6:3 Then shall we know, if we follow on to know the LORD: his going
forth is prepared as the morning; and he shall come unto us as the
rain, as the latter and former rain unto the earth.

6:4 O Ephraim, what shall I do unto thee? O Judah, what shall I do
unto thee? for your goodness is as a morning cloud, and as the early
dew it goeth away.

6:5 Therefore have I hewed them by the prophets; I have slain them by
the words of my mouth: and thy judgments are as the light that goeth
forth.

6:6 For I desired mercy, and not sacrifice; and the knowledge of God
more than burnt offerings.

6:7 But they like men have transgressed the covenant: there have they
dealt treacherously against me.

6:8 Gilead is a city of them that work iniquity, and is polluted with
blood.

6:9 And as troops of robbers wait for a man, so the company of priests
murder in the way by consent: for they commit lewdness.

6:10 I have seen an horrible thing in the house of Israel: there is
the whoredom of Ephraim, Israel is defiled.

6:11 Also, O Judah, he hath set an harvest for thee, when I returned
the captivity of my people.

7:1 When I would have healed Israel, then the iniquity of Ephraim was
discovered, and the wickedness of Samaria: for they commit falsehood;
and the thief cometh in, and the troop of robbers spoileth without.

7:2 And they consider not in their hearts that I remember all their
wickedness: now their own doings have beset them about; they are
before my face.

7:3 They make the king glad with their wickedness, and the princes
with their lies.

7:4 They are all adulterers, as an oven heated by the baker, who
ceaseth from raising after he hath kneaded the dough, until it be
leavened.

7:5 In the day of our king the princes have made him sick with bottles
of wine; he stretched out his hand with scorners.

7:6 For they have made ready their heart like an oven, whiles they lie
in wait: their baker sleepeth all the night; in the morning it burneth
as a flaming fire.

7:7 They are all hot as an oven, and have devoured their judges; all
their kings are fallen: there is none among them that calleth unto me.

7:8 Ephraim, he hath mixed himself among the people; Ephraim is a cake
not turned.

7:9 Strangers have devoured his strength, and he knoweth it not: yea,
gray hairs are here and there upon him, yet he knoweth not.

7:10 And the pride of Israel testifieth to his face: and they do not
return to the LORD their God, nor seek him for all this.

7:11 Ephraim also is like a silly dove without heart: they call to
Egypt, they go to Assyria.

7:12 When they shall go, I will spread my net upon them; I will bring
them down as the fowls of the heaven; I will chastise them, as their
congregation hath heard.

7:13 Woe unto them! for they have fled from me: destruction unto them!
because they have transgressed against me: though I have redeemed
them, yet they have spoken lies against me.

7:14 And they have not cried unto me with their heart, when they
howled upon their beds: they assemble themselves for corn and wine,
and they rebel against me.

7:15 Though I have bound and strengthened their arms, yet do they
imagine mischief against me.

7:16 They return, but not to the most High: they are like a deceitful
bow: their princes shall fall by the sword for the rage of their
tongue: this shall be their derision in the land of Egypt.

8:1 Set the trumpet to thy mouth. He shall come as an eagle against
the house of the LORD, because they have transgressed my covenant, and
trespassed against my law.

8:2 Israel shall cry unto me, My God, we know thee.

8:3 Israel hath cast off the thing that is good: the enemy shall
pursue him.

8:4 They have set up kings, but not by me: they have made princes, and
I knew it not: of their silver and their gold have they made them
idols, that they may be cut off.

8:5 Thy calf, O Samaria, hath cast thee off; mine anger is kindled
against them: how long will it be ere they attain to innocency? 8:6
For from Israel was it also: the workman made it; therefore it is not
God: but the calf of Samaria shall be broken in pieces.

8:7 For they have sown the wind, and they shall reap the whirlwind: it
hath no stalk; the bud shall yield no meal: if so be it yield, the
strangers shall swallow it up.

8:8 Israel is swallowed up: now shall they be among the Gentiles as a
vessel wherein is no pleasure.

8:9 For they are gone up to Assyria, a wild ass alone by himself:
Ephraim hath hired lovers.

8:10 Yea, though they have hired among the nations, now will I gather
them, and they shall sorrow a little for the burden of the king of
princes.

8:11 Because Ephraim hath made many altars to sin, altars shall be
unto him to sin.

8:12 I have written to him the great things of my law, but they were
counted as a strange thing.

8:13 They sacrifice flesh for the sacrifices of mine offerings, and
eat it; but the LORD accepteth them not; now will he remember their
iniquity, and visit their sins: they shall return to Egypt.

8:14 For Israel hath forgotten his Maker, and buildeth temples; and
Judah hath multiplied fenced cities: but I will send a fire upon his
cities, and it shall devour the palaces thereof.

9:1 Rejoice not, O Israel, for joy, as other people: for thou hast
gone a whoring from thy God, thou hast loved a reward upon every
cornfloor.

9:2 The floor and the winepress shall not feed them, and the new wine
shall fail in her.

9:3 They shall not dwell in the LORD’s land; but Ephraim shall return
to Egypt, and they shall eat unclean things in Assyria.

9:4 They shall not offer wine offerings to the LORD, neither shall
they be pleasing unto him: their sacrifices shall be unto them as the
bread of mourners; all that eat thereof shall be polluted: for their
bread for their soul shall not come into the house of the LORD.

9:5 What will ye do in the solemn day, and in the day of the feast of
the LORD? 9:6 For, lo, they are gone because of destruction: Egypt
shall gather them up, Memphis shall bury them: the pleasant places for
their silver, nettles shall possess them: thorns shall be in their
tabernacles.

9:7 The days of visitation are come, the days of recompence are come;
Israel shall know it: the prophet is a fool, the spiritual man is mad,
for the multitude of thine iniquity, and the great hatred.

9:8 The watchman of Ephraim was with my God: but the prophet is a
snare of a fowler in all his ways, and hatred in the house of his God.

9:9 They have deeply corrupted themselves, as in the days of Gibeah:
therefore he will remember their iniquity, he will visit their sins.

9:10 I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness; I saw your fathers
as the firstripe in the fig tree at her first time: but they went to
Baalpeor, and separated themselves unto that shame; and their
abominations were according as they loved.

9:11 As for Ephraim, their glory shall fly away like a bird, from the
birth, and from the womb, and from the conception.

9:12 Though they bring up their children, yet will I bereave them,
that there shall not be a man left: yea, woe also to them when I
depart from them! 9:13 Ephraim, as I saw Tyrus, is planted in a
pleasant place: but Ephraim shall bring forth his children to the
murderer.

9:14 Give them, O LORD: what wilt thou give? give them a miscarrying
womb and dry breasts.

9:15 All their wickedness is in Gilgal: for there I hated them: for
the wickedness of their doings I will drive them out of mine house, I
will love them no more: all their princes are revolters.

9:16 Ephraim is smitten, their root is dried up, they shall bear no
fruit: yea, though they bring forth, yet will I slay even the beloved
fruit of their womb.

9:17 My God will cast them away, because they did not hearken unto
him: and they shall be wanderers among the nations.

10:1 Israel is an empty vine, he bringeth forth fruit unto himself:
according to the multitude of his fruit he hath increased the altars;
according to the goodness of his land they have made goodly images.

10:2 Their heart is divided; now shall they be found faulty: he shall
break down their altars, he shall spoil their images.

10:3 For now they shall say, We have no king, because we feared not
the LORD; what then should a king do to us? 10:4 They have spoken
words, swearing falsely in making a covenant: thus judgment springeth
up as hemlock in the furrows of the field.

10:5 The inhabitants of Samaria shall fear because of the calves of
Bethaven: for the people thereof shall mourn over it, and the priests
thereof that rejoiced on it, for the glory thereof, because it is
departed from it.

10:6 It shall be also carried unto Assyria for a present to king
Jareb: Ephraim shall receive shame, and Israel shall be ashamed of his
own counsel.

10:7 As for Samaria, her king is cut off as the foam upon the water.

10:8 The high places also of Aven, the sin of Israel, shall be
destroyed: the thorn and the thistle shall come up on their altars;
and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us; and to the hills, Fall
on us.

10:9 O Israel, thou hast sinned from the days of Gibeah: there they
stood: the battle in Gibeah against the children of iniquity did not
overtake them.

10:10 It is in my desire that I should chastise them; and the people
shall be gathered against them, when they shall bind themselves in
their two furrows.

10:11 And Ephraim is as an heifer that is taught, and loveth to tread
out the corn; but I passed over upon her fair neck: I will make
Ephraim to ride; Judah shall plow, and Jacob shall break his clods.

10:12 Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap in mercy; break up your
fallow ground: for it is time to seek the LORD, till he come and rain
righteousness upon you.

10:13 Ye have plowed wickedness, ye have reaped iniquity; ye have
eaten the fruit of lies: because thou didst trust in thy way, in the
multitude of thy mighty men.

10:14 Therefore shall a tumult arise among thy people, and all thy
fortresses shall be spoiled, as Shalman spoiled Betharbel in the day
of battle: the mother was dashed in pieces upon her children.

10:15 So shall Bethel do unto you because of your great wickedness: in
a morning shall the king of Israel utterly be cut off.

11:1 When Israel was a child, then I loved him, and called my son out
of Egypt.

11:2 As they called them, so they went from them: they sacrificed unto
Baalim, and burned incense to graven images.

11:3 I taught Ephraim also to go, taking them by their arms; but they
knew not that I healed them.

11:4 I drew them with cords of a man, with bands of love: and I was to
them as they that take off the yoke on their jaws, and I laid meat
unto them.

11:5 He shall not return into the land of Egypt, and the Assyrian
shall be his king, because they refused to return.

11:6 And the sword shall abide on his cities, and shall consume his
branches, and devour them, because of their own counsels.

11:7 And my people are bent to backsliding from me: though they called
them to the most High, none at all would exalt him.

11:8 How shall I give thee up, Ephraim? how shall I deliver thee,
Israel? how shall I make thee as Admah? how shall I set thee as
Zeboim? mine heart is turned within me, my repentings are kindled
together.

11:9 I will not execute the fierceness of mine anger, I will not
return to destroy Ephraim: for I am God, and not man; the Holy One in
the midst of thee: and I will not enter into the city.

11:10 They shall walk after the LORD: he shall roar like a lion: when
he shall roar, then the children shall tremble from the west.

11:11 They shall tremble as a bird out of Egypt, and as a dove out of
the land of Assyria: and I will place them in their houses, saith the
LORD.

11:12 Ephraim compasseth me about with lies, and the house of Israel
with deceit: but Judah yet ruleth with God, and is faithful with the
saints.

12:1 Ephraim feedeth on wind, and followeth after the east wind: he
daily increaseth lies and desolation; and they do make a covenant with
the Assyrians, and oil is carried into Egypt.

12:2 The LORD hath also a controversy with Judah, and will punish
Jacob according to his ways; according to his doings will he
recompense him.

12:3 He took his brother by the heel in the womb, and by his strength
he had power with God: 12:4 Yea, he had power over the angel, and
prevailed: he wept, and made supplication unto him: he found him in
Bethel, and there he spake with us; 12:5 Even the LORD God of hosts;
the LORD is his memorial.

12:6 Therefore turn thou to thy God: keep mercy and judgment and wait
on thy God continually.

12:7 He is a merchant, the balances of deceit are in his hand: he
loveth to oppress.

12:8 And Ephraim said, Yet I am become rich, I have found me out
substance: in all my labours they shall find none iniquity in me that
were sin.

12:9 And I that am the LORD thy God from the land of Egypt will yet
make thee to dwell in tabernacles, as in the days of the solemn feast.

12:10 I have also spoken by the prophets, and I have multiplied
visions, and used similitudes, by the ministry of the prophets.

12:11 Is there iniquity in Gilead? surely they are vanity: they
sacrifice bullocks in Gilgal; yea, their altars are as heaps in the
furrows of the fields.

12:12 And Jacob fled into the country of Syria, and Israel served for
a wife, and for a wife he kept sheep.

12:13 And by a prophet the LORD brought Israel out of Egypt, and by a
prophet was he preserved.

12:14 Ephraim provoked him to anger most bitterly: therefore shall he
leave his blood upon him, and his reproach shall his LORD return unto
him.

13:1 When Ephraim spake trembling, he exalted himself in Israel; but
when he offended in Baal, he died.

13:2 And now they sin more and more, and have made them molten images
of their silver, and idols according to their own understanding, all
of it the work of the craftsmen: they say of them, Let the men that
sacrifice kiss the calves.

13:3 Therefore they shall be as the morning cloud and as the early dew
that passeth away, as the chaff that is driven with the whirlwind out
of the floor, and as the smoke out of the chimney.

13:4 Yet I am the LORD thy God from the land of Egypt, and thou shalt
know no god but me: for there is no saviour beside me.

13:5 I did know thee in the wilderness, in the land of great drought.

13:6 According to their pasture, so were they filled; they were
filled, and their heart was exalted; therefore have they forgotten me.

13:7 Therefore I will be unto them as a lion: as a leopard by the way
will I observe them: 13:8 I will meet them as a bear that is bereaved
of her whelps, and will rend the caul of their heart, and there will I
devour them like a lion: the wild beast shall tear them.

13:9 O Israel, thou hast destroyed thyself; but in me is thine help.

13:10 I will be thy king: where is any other that may save thee in all
thy cities? and thy judges of whom thou saidst, Give me a king and
princes? 13:11 I gave thee a king in mine anger, and took him away in
my wrath.

13:12 The iniquity of Ephraim is bound up; his sin is hid.

13:13 The sorrows of a travailing woman shall come upon him: he is an
unwise son; for he should not stay long in the place of the breaking
forth of children.

13:14 I will ransom them from the power of the grave; I will redeem
them from death: O death, I will be thy plagues; O grave, I will be
thy destruction: repentance shall be hid from mine eyes.

13:15 Though he be fruitful among his brethren, an east wind shall
come, the wind of the LORD shall come up from the wilderness, and his
spring shall become dry, and his fountain shall be dried up: he shall
spoil the treasure of all pleasant vessels.

13:16 Samaria shall become desolate; for she hath rebelled against her
God: they shall fall by the sword: their infants shall be dashed in
pieces, and their women with child shall be ripped up.

14:1 O israel, return unto the LORD thy God; for thou hast fallen by
thine iniquity.

14:2 Take with you words, and turn to the LORD: say unto him, Take
away all iniquity, and receive us graciously: so will we render the
calves of our lips.

14:3 Asshur shall not save us; we will not ride upon horses: neither
will we say any more to the work of our hands, Ye are our gods: for in
thee the fatherless findeth mercy.

14:4 I will heal their backsliding, I will love them freely: for mine
anger is turned away from him.

14:5 I will be as the dew unto Israel: he shall grow as the lily, and
cast forth his roots as Lebanon.

14:6 His branches shall spread, and his beauty shall be as the olive
tree, and his smell as Lebanon.

14:7 They that dwell under his shadow shall return; they shall revive
as the corn, and grow as the vine: the scent thereof shall be as the
wine of Lebanon.

14:8 Ephraim shall say, What have I to do any more with idols? I have
heard him, and observed him: I am like a green fir tree. From me is
thy fruit found.

14:9 Who is wise, and he shall understand these things? prudent, and
he shall know them? for the ways of the LORD are right, and the just
shall walk in them: but the transgressors shall fall therein.
