Zephaniah

Chapter 1

1 The word of the Lord, which came vnto Zephaniah ye sonne of Cushi, the sonne
of Gedaliah, the sonne of Amariah, the sonne of Hizkiah, in the dayes of Iosiah,
the sonne of Amon King of Iudah.
2 I will surely destroy all things from off the land, saith the Lorde.
3 I will destroy man and beast: I wil destroy the foules of the heauen, and the
fishes of the sea, and ruines shalbe to the wicked, and I will cut off man from
off the land, saith the Lord.
4 I will also stretch out mine hand vpon Iudah, and vpon all the inhabitants of
Ierusalem, and I wil cut off the remnant of Baal from this place, and the name
of the Chemarims with ye Priestes,
5 And them that worship the hoste of heauen vpon the house tops, and them that
worship and sweare by the Lord, and sweare by Malcham,
6 And them that are turned backe from the Lord, and those that haue not sought
the Lorde, nor inquired for him.
7 Be stil at the presence of the Lord God: for the day of the Lord is at hand:
for the Lord hath prepared a sacrifice, and hath sanctified his ghests.
8 And it shalbe in the day of the Lords sacrifice, that I will visite the
princes and the Kings children, and all such as are clothed with strange
apparell.
9 In the same day also will I visite all those that dance vpon the threshold so
proudly, which fill their masters houses by crueltie and deceite.
10 And in that day, saith the Lord, there shall be a noise, and cry from the
fishgate, and an howling from the second gate, and a great destruction from the
hilles.
11 Howle ye inhabitants of the lowe place: for the companie of the marchants is
destroyed: all they that beare siluer, are cut off.
12 And at that time will I searche Ierusalem with lightes, and visite the men
that are frosen in their dregges, & say in their heartes, The Lord will neither
doe good nor doe euill.
13 Therefore their goods shall be spoyled, and their houses waste: they shall
also build houses, but not inhabite them, and they shall plant vineyards, but
not drinke the wine thereof.
14 The great day of the Lorde is neere: it is neere, and hasteth greatly, euen
the voyce of the day of the Lord: the strong man shall cry there bitterly.
15 That day is a day of wrath, a day of trouble and heauinesse, a day of
destruction and desolation, a day of obscuritie and darkenesse, a day of cloudes
and blackenesse,
16 A day of the trumpet and alarme against the strong cities, and against the
hie towres.
17 And I will bring distresse vpon men, that they shall walke like blind men,
because they haue sinned against the Lorde, and their blood shall be powred out
as dust, and their flesh as the dongue.
18 Neither their siluer nor their golde shalbe able to deliuer them in ye day of
the Lords wrath, but the whole lande shalbe deuoured by the fire of his
ielousie: for hee shall make euen a speedie riddance of all them that dwell in
the land.

Chapter 2

1 Gather your selues, euen gather you, O nation not worthie to be loued,
2 Before the decree come foorth, and ye be as chaffe that passeth in a day, and
before the fierce wrath of the Lord come vpon you, and before the day of the
Lords anger come vpon you.
3 Seeke yee the Lorde all the meeke of the earth, which haue wrought his
iudgement: seeke righteousnesse, seeke lowlinesse, if so bee that ye may be hid
in the day of the Lords wrath.
4 For Azzah shall be forsaken, and Ashkelon desolate: they shall driue out
Ashdod at the noone day, and Ekron shalbe rooted vp.
5 Wo vnto the inhabitants of the sea coast. the nation of the Cherethims, the
worde of the Lorde is against you: O Canaan, the lande of the Philistims, I will
euen destroye thee without an inhabitant.
6 And the sea coast shal be dwellings and cotages for shepheardes and
sheepefoldes.
7 And that coast shall be for the remnant of the house of Iudah, to feede
thereupon: in the houses of Ashkelon shal they lodge toward night: for the Lorde
their God shall visite them, and turne away their captiuitie.
8 I haue heard the reproch of Moab, and the rebukes of the children of Ammon,
whereby they vpbraided my people, and magnified themselues against their
borders.
9 Therefore, as I liue, saith the Lord of hostes, the God of Israel, Surely Moab
shall bee as Sodom, and the children of Ammon as Gomorah, euen the breeding of
nettels and salt pittes, and a perpetuall desolation: the residue of my folke
shall spoyle them, and the remnant of my people shall possesse them.
10 This shall they haue for their pride, because they haue reproched and
magnified themselues against the Lord of hostes people.
11 The Lord will be terrible vnto them: for he wil consume all the gods of the
earth, and euery man shall worship him from his place, euen all the yles of the
heathen.
12 Ye Morians also shalbe slaine by my sword with them.
13 And he wil stretch out his hand against the North, and destroy Asshur, and
will make Nineueh desolate, and waste like a wildernesse.
14 And flockes shall lie in the middes of her, and all the beastes of the
nations, and the pelicane, and the owle shall abide in the vpper postes of it:
the voyce of birdes shall sing in the windowes, and desolations shalbe vpon the
postes: for the cedars are vncouered.
15 This is the reioycing citie that dwelt carelesse, that said in her heart, I
am, and there is none besides me: how is she made waste, and the lodging of the
beastes! euery one that passeth by her, shall hisse and wagge his hand.

Chapter 3

1 Woe to her that is filthie and polluted, to the robbing citie.
2 She heard not the voyce: she receiued not correction: she trusted not in the
Lord: she drew not neere to her God.
3 Her princes within her are as roaring lyons: her iudges are as wolues in the
euening, which leaue not the bones till the morow.
4 Her prophets are light, and wicked persons: her priests haue polluted the
Sanctuarie: they haue wrested the Lawe.
5 The iust Lord is in the middes thereof: he will doe none iniquitie: euery
morning doeth hee bring his iudgement to light, he faileth not: but the wicked
will not learne to be ashamed.
6 I haue cut off the nations: their towres are desolate: I haue made their
streetes waste, that none shal passe by: their cities are destroyed without man
and without inhabitant.
7 I said, Surely thou wilt feare me: thou wilt receiue instruction: so their
dwelling shoulde not be destroyed howsoeuer I visited them, but they rose earely
and corrupted all their workes.
8 Therefore wait ye vpon me, saith the Lord, vntill the day that I rise vp to
the praye: for I am determined to gather the nations, and that I will assemble
the kingdomes to powre vpon them mine indignation, euen all my fierce wrath: for
all the earth shall be deuoured with the fire of my ielousie.
9 Surely then will I turne to the people a pure language, that they may all call
vpon the Name of the Lord, to serue him with one cosent.
10 From beyonde the riuers of Ethiopia, the daughter of my dispersed, praying
vnto me, shall bring me an offering.
11 In that day shalt thou not be ashamed for all thy workes, wherein thou hast
transgressed against mee: for then I will take away out of the middes of thee
them that reioyce of thy pride, and thou shalt no more be proude of mine holy
Mountaine.
12 Then will I leaue in the middes of thee an humble and poore people: and they
shall trust in the Name of the Lord.
13 The remnant of Israel shal do none iniquitie, nor speake lies: neither shall
a deceitful tongue be found in their mouth: for they shalbe fed, and lie downe,
and none shall make them afraide.
14 Reioyce, O daughter Zion: be ye ioyfull, O Israel: be glad and reioyce with
all thine heart, O daughter Ierusalem.
15 The Lorde hath taken away thy iudgements: hee hath cast out thine enemie: the
King of Israel, euen the Lord is in the middes of thee: thou shalt see no more
euill.
16 In that day it shalbe said to Ierusalem, Feare thou not, O Zion: let not
thine handes be faint.
17 The Lord thy God in the middes of thee is mightie: hee will saue, hee will
reioyce ouer thee with ioye: he will quiet himselfe in his loue: he will reioyce
ouer thee with ioy.
18 After a certaine time will I gather the afflicted that were of thee, and them
that bare the reproch for it.
19 Beholde, at that time I will bruise all that afflict thee, and I will saue
her that halteth, and gather her that was cast out, and I will get them praise
and fame in all the landes of their shame.
20 At that time wil I bring you againe, & then wil I gather you: for I wil giue
you a name & a praise among all people of the earth, when I turne backe your
captiuitie before your eyes, saith the Lorde.


Haggai

Chapter 1

1 In the second yeere of King Darius, in the sixt moneth, the first day of the
moneth, came ye worde of the Lorde (by the ministery of the Prophet Haggai) vnto
Zerubbabel the sonne of Shealtiel, a prince of Iudah, and to Iehoshua the sonne
of Iehozadak the hie Priest, saying,
2 Thus speaketh the Lorde of hostes, saying, This people say, The time is not
yet come, that the Lords House should be builded.
3 Then came the worde of the Lorde by the ministerie of the Prophet Haggai,
saying,
4 Is it time for your selues to dwell in your sieled houses, and this House lie
waste?
5 Now therefore thus saith ye Lord of hostes, Consider your owne wayes in your
hearts.
6 Ye haue sowen much, and bring in litle: ye eate, but ye haue not ynough: ye
drinke, but ye are not filled: ye clothe you, but ye be not warme: and he that
earneth wages, putteth the wages into a broken bagge.
7 Thus sayth the Lorde of hostes, Consider your owne wayes in your hearts.
8 Goe vp to the mountaine, & bring wood, and build this House, and I wil be
fauourable in it, and I will be glorified, sayth the Lord.
9 Ye looked for much, and lo, it came to litle: and when ye brought it home, I
did blowe vpon it; why, sayth the Lord of hostes? Because of mine House that is
waste, and ye runne euery man vnto his owne house.
10 Therefore the heauen ouer you stayed it selfe from dewe, and the earth stayed
her fruite.
11 And I called for a drought vpon the land, and vpon the mountaines, & vpon the
corne, and vpon the wine, and vpon the oyle, vpon all that the ground bringeth
foorth: both vpon men and vpon cattell, and vpon all the labour of the hands.
12 When Zerubbabel the sonne of Shealtiel, and Iehoshua the sonne of Iehozadak
the hie Priest with all the remnant of the people, heard the voyce of the Lord
their God, & the wordes of the Prophet Haggai (as the Lorde their God had sent
him) then the people did feare before the Lorde.
13 Then spake Haggai the Lords messenger in the Lords message vnto the people,
saying, I am with you, sayth the Lord.
14 And the Lord stirred vp the spirite of Zerubbabel, the sonne of Shealtiel a
prince of Iudah, and the spirit of Iehoshua the sonne of Iehozadak the hie
Priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people, and they came, and did
the worke in the House of the Lorde of hostes their God.
15 (2:1) In the foure and twentieth day of the sixt moneth, in the second yeere
of King Darius,

Chapter 2

1 (2:2) In the seuenth moneth, in the one & twentieth day of the moneth, came
the worde of the Lorde by the ministerie of the Prophet Haggai, saying,
2 (2:3) Speake nowe to Zerubbabel the sonne of Shealtiel prince of Iudah, and to
Iehoshua the sonne of Iehozadak the hie Priest, and to the residue of the
people, saying,
3 (2:4) Who is left among you, that sawe this House in her first glory, and howe
doe you see it nowe? is it not in your eyes, in comparison of it as nothing?
4 (2:5) Yet nowe be of good courage, O Zerubbabel, sayth the Lord, and be of
good comfort, O Iehoshua, sonne of Iehozadak the hie Priest: and be strong, all
ye people of the land, sayth the Lorde, and doe it: for I am with you, sayth the
Lord of hostes,
5 (2:6) According to the worde that I couenanted with you, when ye came out of
Egypt: so my Spirite shall remaine among you, feare ye not.
6 (2:7) For thus sayth the Lorde of hostes, Yet a litle while, and I will shake
the heauens and the earth, and the sea, and the dry land:
7 (2:8) And I will moue all nations, and the desire of all nations shall come,
and I will fill this House with glory, sayth the Lord of hostes.
8 (2:9) The siluer is mine, and the golde is mine, sayth the Lord of hostes.
9 (2:10) The glory of this last House shall be greater then the first, sayth the
Lorde of hostes: and in this place will I giue peace, sayth the Lorde of hostes.
10 (2:11) In the foure and twentieth day of the ninth moneth, in the second
yeere of Darius, came the worde of the Lorde vnto the Prophet Haggai, saying,
11 (2:12) Thus sayth the Lord of hostes, Aske nowe the Priests concerning the
Law, and say,
12 (2:13) If one beare holy flesh in the skirt of his garment, & with his skirt
doe touch the bread, or the potage, or the wine, or oyle, or any meate, shal it
be holy? And the Priests answered and said, No.
13 (2:14) Then sayde Haggai, If a polluted person touch any of these, shall it
be vncleane? And the Priests answered, and sayd, It shalbe vncleane.
14 (2:15) Then answered Haggai, and sayd, So is this people, and so is this
nation before me, saith the Lord: and so are all the workes of their hands, and
that which they offer here, is vncleane.
15 (2:16) And nowe, I pray you, consider in your mindes: from this day, and
afore, euen afore a stone was layde vpon a stone in the Temple of the Lorde:
16 (2:17) Before these things were, when one came to an heape of twentie
measures, there were but ten: when one came to the wine presse for to drawe out
fiftie vessels out of the presse, there were but twentie.
17 (2:18) I smote you with blasting, and with mildewe, and with haile, in all
the labours of your hands: yet you turned not to me, saith the Lord.
18 (2:19) Consider, I pray you, in your mindes, from this day, and afore from
the foure & twentieth day of the ninth moneth, euen from the day that the
foundation of the Lords Temple was laide: consider it in your mindes.
19 (2:20) Is the seede yet in the barne? as yet the vine, and the figtree, and
the pomegranate, and the oliue tree hath not brought forth: from this day will I
blesse you.
20 (2:21) And againe the worde of the Lorde came vnto Haggai in the foure and
twentieth day of the moneth, saying,
21 (2:22) Speake to Zerubbabel the prince of Iudah, and say, I wil shake the
heauens and the earth,
22 (2:23) And I will ouerthrowe the throne of kingdomes, & I wil destroy the
strength of the kingdomes of the heathen, and I wil ouerthrowe the charets, and
those that ride in them, and the horse and the riders shal come downe, euery one
by the sword of his brother.
23 (2:24) In that day, saith the Lord of hostes, will I take thee, O Zerubbabel
my seruant, the sonne of Shealtiel, sayth the Lorde, and wil make thee as a
signet: for I haue chosen thee, sayth the Lord of hostes.

