Prologue (Daniel 12:1–13)

This is the revelation of Jesus Christ, which
God gave Him to show His servants what
must soon a come to pass. He made it known by
sending His angel to His servant John, 
2 who testifies to everything he saw. This is the word of
God and the testimony of Jesus Christ.
3 Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of
this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear
and obey what is written in it, because the time
is near.

John Greets the Seven Churches

4 John,
To the seven churches in the province of Asia: b
Grace and peace to you from Him who is and was
and is to come, and from the seven spirits c before
His throne, 
5 and from Jesus Christ, the faithful
witness, the firstborn from the dead, and the
ruler of the kings of the earth.
To Him who loves us and has released us from
our sins by His blood, 
6 who has made us to be a
kingdom, priests to His God and Father—to Him
be the glory and power forever and ever! Amen.
7 Behold, He is coming with the clouds, and every
eye will see Him—even those who pierced Him.
And all the tribes of the earth will mourn because
of Him. So shall it be! Amen.
8 “I am the Alpha and the Omega,d ” says the Lord
God, who is and was and is to come—the
Almighty.

John’s Vision on Patmos

9 I, John, your brother and partner in the tribula-
tion and kingdom and perseverance that are in
Jesus, was on the island of Patmos because of the
word of God and my testimony about Jesus. 
10 On
the Lord’s day I was in the Spirit, and I heard be-
hind me a loud voice like a trumpet, 
11 saying,e
“Write on a scroll what you see and send it to the
seven churches: to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum,
Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, and Laodicea.”
12 Then I turned to see the voice that was speak-
ing with me. And having turned, I saw seven
golden lampstands, 
13 and among the lampstands
was One like the Son of Man, f dressed in a long
robe, with a golden sash around His chest. 
14 The hair of His head was white like wool, as white as
snow, and His eyes were like a blazing fire. 
15 His
feet were like polished bronze refined in a fur-
nace, and His voice was like the roar of many wa-
ters. 
16 He held in His right hand seven stars, and
a sharp double-edged sword came from His
mouth. His face was like the sun shining at its
brightest.
17 When I saw Him, I fell at His feet like a dead
man. But He placed His right hand on me and
said, “Do not be afraid. I am the First and the Last,
18 the Living One. I was dead, and behold, now I
am alive forever and ever! And I hold the keys of
Death and of Hades.
19 Therefore write down the things you have
seen, the things that are, and the things that will
happen after this. 
20 This is the mystery of the
seven stars you saw in My right hand and of the
seven golden lampstands: The seven stars are
the angels of the seven churches, and the seven
lampstands are the seven churches.

To the Church in Ephesus
(Acts 19:8–12; Ephesians 1:1–2)

1 “To the angel of the church in Ephesus write:
These are the words of Him who holds the
seven stars in His right hand and walks
among the seven golden lampstands.
2 I know your deeds, your labor, and your
perseverance. I know that you cannot toler-
ate those who are evil, and you have tested
and exposed as liars those who falsely claim
to be apostles. 
3 Without growing weary, you
have persevered and endured many things
for the sake of My name.


1
2
Revelation
a 1 Or suddenly or quickly b 4 Literally in Asia ; Asia was a Roman province in what is now western Turkey.
c 4 Or the sevenfold Spirit d 8 TR the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End e 11 TR saying, “I am the
Alpha and the Omega, the First and the Last,” and, f 13 Or one like a son of man ; see Daniel 7:13.
4 But I have this against you: You have aban-
doned your first love. 
5 Therefore, keep in
mind how far you have fallen. Repent and
perform the deeds you did at first. But if you
do not repent, I will come to you and remove
your lampstand from its place.
6 But you have this to your credit: You hate
the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also
hate.
7 He who has an ear, let him hear what the
Spirit says to the churches. To the one who
overcomes, I will grant the right to eat from
the tree of life in the Paradise of God.

To the Church in Smyrna

8 To the angel of the church in Smyrna write:
These are the words of the First and the Last,
who died and returned to life.
9 I know your affliction and your poverty—
though you are rich! And I am aware of the
slander of those who falsely claim to be Jews,
but are in fact a synagogue of Satan.
10 Do not fear what you are about to suffer.
Behold, the devil is about to throw some of
you into prison to test you, and you will suf-
fer tribulation for ten days. Be faithful even
unto death, and I will give you the crown of
life.
11 He who has an ear, let him hear what the
Spirit says to the churches. The one who
overcomes will not be harmed by the second
death.

To the Church in Pergamum

12 To the angel of the church in Pergamum write:
These are the words of the One who holds
the sharp, double-edged sword.
13 I know where you live, where the throne
of Satan sits, yet you hold fast to My name.
You did not deny your faith in Me, even in the
days of My faithful witness Antipas, who was
killed among you where Satan dwells.
14 But I have a few things against you, be-
cause some of you hold to the teaching of Ba-
laam, who taught Balak to place a stumbling
block before the Israelites so they would eat
food sacrificed to idols and commit sexual
immorality. 
15 In the same way, some of you
also hold to the teaching of the Nicolaitans.
16 Therefore repent! Otherwise I will come to
you shortly and wage war against them with
the sword of My mouth.
17 He who has an ear, let him hear what the
Spirit says to the churches. To the one who
overcomes, I will give the hidden manna. I
will also give him a white stone inscribed
with a new name, known only to the one who
receives it.

To the Church in Thyatira
(Acts 16:11–15)

18 To the angel of the church in Thyatira write:
These are the words of the Son of God, whose
eyes are like a blazing fire and whose feet are
like polished bronze.
19 I know your deeds—your love, your faith,
your service, your perseverance—and your
latest deeds are greater than your first.
20 But I have this against you: You tolerate
that woman Jezebel, who calls herself a
prophetess. By her teaching she misleads My
servants to be sexually immoral and to eat
food sacrificed to idols. 
21 Even though I have
given her time to repent of her immorality,
she is unwilling.
22 Behold, I will cast her onto a bed of sick-
ness, and those who commit adultery with
her will suffer great tribulation unless they
repent of her deeds. 
23 Then I will strike her
children dead, and all the churches will know
that I am the One who searches minds and
hearts, and I will repay each of you according
to your deeds.
24 But I say to the rest of you in Thyatira, who
do not hold to her teaching and have not
learned the so-called deep things of Satan: I
will place no further burden upon you
25 than to hold fast to what you have until I
come. 
26 And to the one who overcomes and
continues in My work until the end, I will
give authority over the nations. 
27 He will
rule them with an iron scepter and shatter
them like pottery a—just as I have received
authority from My Father. 
28 And I will give
him the morning star.
29 He who has an ear, let him hear what the
Spirit says to the churches.
1104 | Revelation 2:4
a 27 Psalm 2:9 (see also LXX)


To the Church in Sardis

“To the angel of the church in Sardis write:
These are the words of the One who holds
the seven spirits a of God and the seven stars.
I know your deeds; you have a reputation for
being alive, yet you are dead. 
2 Wake up and
strengthen what remains, which is about to
die; for I have found your deeds incomplete
in the sight of My God. 
3 Remember, then,
what you have received and heard. Keep it
and repent. If you do not wake up, I will come
like a thief, and you will not know the hour
when I will come upon you.
4 But you do have a few people in Sardis who
have not soiled their garments, and because
they are worthy, they will walk with Me in
white. 5 Like them, he who overcomes will be
dressed in white. And I will never blot out b
his name from the Book of Life, but I will
confess his name before My Father and His
angels.
6 He who has an ear, let him hear what the
Spirit says to the churches.
To the Church in Philadelphia
7 To the angel of the church in Philadelphia write:
These are the words of the One who is holy
and true, who holds the key of David. What
He opens no one can shut, and what He shuts
no one can open.c
8 I know your deeds. Behold, I have placed
before you an open door, which no one can
shut. I know that you have only a little
strength, yet you have kept My word and
have not denied My name. 9 As for those who
belong to the synagogue of Satan, who claim
to be Jews but are liars instead, I will make
them come and bow down at your feet, and
they will know that I love you.
10 Because you have kept My command to
persevere, I will also keep you from the hour
of testing that is about to come upon the
whole world, to test those who dwell on the
earth. 11 I am coming soon.d Hold fast to what
you have, so that no one will take your
crown. 12 The one who overcomes I will
make a pillar in the temple of My God, and he
will never again leave it. Upon him I will
write the name of My God, and the name of
the city of My God (the new Jerusalem that
comes down out of heaven from My God),
and My new name.
13 He who has an ear, let him hear what the
Spirit says to the churches.
To the Church in Laodicea (Colossians 2:1–5)
14 To the angel of the church in Laodicea write:
These are the words of the Amen, the faithful
and true Witness, the Originator e of God’s
creation.
15 I know your deeds; you are neither cold
nor hot. How I wish you were one or the
other! 16 So because you are lukewarm—
neither hot nor cold—I am about to vomit
you out of My mouth!
17 You say, ‘I am rich; I have grown wealthy
and need nothing.’ But you do not realize
that you are wretched, pitiful, poor, blind,
and naked. 18 I counsel you to buy from Me
gold refined by fire so that you may become
rich, white garments so that you may be
clothed and your shameful nakedness not
exposed, and salve to anoint your eyes so
that you may see. 19 Those I love I rebuke and
discipline. Therefore be earnest and repent.
20 Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If
anyone hears My voice and opens the door, I
will come in and dine with him, and he with
Me. 21 To the one who overcomes, I will grant
the right to sit with Me on My throne, just as
I overcame and sat down with My Father on
His throne.
22 He who has an ear, let him hear what the
Spirit says to the churches.”
The Throne in Heaven
After this I looked and saw a door standing
open in heaven. And the voice I had previ-
ously heard speak to me like a trumpet was say-
ing, “Come up here, and I will show you what
must happen after these things.”
2 At once I was in the Spirit, and I saw a throne
standing in heaven, with someone seated on it.
3 The One seated there looked like jasper and car-
nelian, and a rainbow that gleamed like an emer-
ald encircled the throne. 4 Surrounding the
throne were twenty-four other thrones, and on
these thrones sat twenty-four elders dressed in
white, with golden crowns on their heads.
3
4
a 1 Or the sevenfold Spirit b 5 Or scrape off c 7 See Isaiah 22:22. d 11 Or suddenly or quickly e 14 Or Beginning or Ruler
Revelation 4:4 | 1105
Worship of the Creator
5 From the throne came flashes of lightning, rum-
blings, and peals of thunder. Before the throne
burned seven torches of fire. These are the seven
spirits a of God. 6 And before the throne was
something like a sea of glass, as clear as crystal.
In the center, around the throne, were four living
creatures, covered with eyes in front and back.
7 The first living creature was like a lion, the sec-
ond like a calf, the third had a face like a man, and
the fourth was like an eagle in flight. 8 And each
of the four living creatures had six wings and was
covered with eyes all around and within. Day and
night they never stop saying:
“Holy, Holy, Holy,
is the Lord God Almighty,
who was and is and is to come!”
9 And whenever the living creatures give glory,
honor, and thanks to the One seated on the
throne, who lives forever and ever, 10 the twenty-
four elders fall down before the One seated on
the throne, and they worship Him who lives for-
ever and ever. They cast their crowns before the
throne, saying:
11 “Worthy are You, our Lord and God,
to receive glory and honor and power,
for You created all things;
by Your will they exist and were
created.”
The Lamb Takes the Scroll
Then I saw a scroll in the right hand of the
One seated on the throne. It had writing on
both sides and was sealed with seven seals. 2 And
I saw a mighty angel proclaiming in a loud voice,
“Who is worthy to break the seals and open the
scroll?”
3 But no one in heaven or on earth or under the
earth was able to open the scroll or look inside
it. 4 And I began to weep bitterly, because no
one was found worthy to open the scroll or look
inside it.
5 Then one of the elders said to me, “Do not weep!
Behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of
David, has triumphed to open the scroll and its
seven seals.”
6 Then I saw a Lamb who appeared to have been
slain, standing in the center of the throne, encir-
cled by the four living creatures and the elders.
The Lamb had seven horns and seven eyes,
which represent the seven spirits b of God sent
out into all the earth. 7 And He came and took the
scroll from the right hand of the One seated on
the throne.
8 When He had taken the scroll, the four living
creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down
before the Lamb. Each one had a harp, and they
were holding golden bowls full of incense, which
are the prayers of the saints. 9 And they sang a
new song:
“Worthy are You to take the scroll and open
its seals,
because You were slain,
and by Your blood You purchased for God
those from every tribe and tongue
and people and nation.
10 You have made them to be a kingdom
and priests to serve our God,
and they will reign upon c the earth.”
The Lamb Exalted
11 Then I looked, and I heard the voices of many
angels encircling the throne, and the living crea-
tures and the elders. And their number was myr-
iads of myriads and thousands of thousands. 12 In
a loud voice they were saying:
“Worthy is the Lamb who was slain,
to receive power and riches
and wisdom and strength
and honor and glory and blessing!”
13 And I heard every creature in heaven and on
earth and under the earth and in the sea, and all
that is in them, saying:
“To Him who sits on the throne
and to the Lamb
be praise and honor and glory and power
forever and ever!”
14 And the four living creatures said, “Amen,” and
the elders fell down and worshiped.d
The First Seal: The White Horse
Then I watched as the Lamb opened one of
the seven seals, and I heard one of the four
living creatures say in a voice like thunder,
“Come!”
2 So I looked and saw a white horse, and its rider
held a bow. And he was given a crown, and he
rode out to overcome and conquer.
5
6
a 5 Or This is the sevenfold Spirit b 6 Or the sevenfold Spirit c 10 Or they will reign over ; WH they reign upon
d 14 TR includes Him who lives for ever and ever .
1106 | Revelation 4:5
The Second Seal: War
3 And when the Lamb opened the second seal, I
heard the second living creature say, “Come!”
4 Then another horse went forth. It was bright
red, and its rider was granted permission to take
away peace from the earth and to make men slay
one another. And he was given a great sword.
The Third Seal: Famine
5 And when the Lamb opened the third seal, I
heard the third living creature say, “Come!”
Then I looked and saw a black horse, and its rider
held in his hand a pair of scales. 6 And I heard
what sounded like a voice from among the four
living creatures, saying, “A quart of wheat for a
denarius,a and three quarts of barley for a denar-
ius, and do not harm the oil and wine.”
The Fourth Seal: Death
7 And when the Lamb opened the fourth seal, I
heard the voice of the fourth living creature say,
“Come!”
8 Then I looked and saw a pale green horse. Its
rider’s name was Death, and Hades followed
close behind. And they were given authority over
a fourth of the earth, to kill by sword, by famine,
by plague, and by the beasts of the earth.
The Fifth Seal: The Martyrs
9 And when the Lamb opened the fifth seal, I saw
under the altar the souls of those who had been
slain for the word of God and for the testimony
they had upheld. 10 And they cried out in a loud
voice, “How long, O Lord, holy and true, until You
judge those who dwell upon the earth and
avenge our blood?”
11 Then each of them was given a white robe and
told to rest a little while longer until the full num-
ber of their fellow servants, their brothers, were
killed, just as they had been killed.
The Sixth Seal: Terror
12 And I watched as the Lamb opened the sixth
seal, and there was a great earthquake, and the
sun became black like sackcloth of goat hair, and
the whole moon turned blood red, 13 and the
stars of the sky fell to the earth like unripe figs
dropping from a tree shaken by a great wind.
14 The sky receded like a scroll being rolled up,
and every mountain and island was moved from
its place.
15 Then the kings of the earth, the nobles, the
commanders, the rich, the mighty, and every
slave and free man hid in the caves and among
the rocks of the mountains. 16 And they said to
the mountains and the rocks, “Fall on us and hide
us b from the face of the One seated on the throne,
and from the wrath of the Lamb. 17 For the great
day of Their c wrath has come, and who is able to
withstand it?”
144,000 Sealed
After this I saw four angels standing at the
four corners of the earth, holding back its
four winds so that no wind would blow on land
or sea or on any tree. 2 And I saw another angel
ascending from the east, with the seal of the liv-
ing God. And he called out in a loud voice to the
four angels who had been given power to harm
the land and the sea: 3 “Do not harm the land or
sea or trees until we have placed a seal on the
foreheads of the servants of our God.”
4 And I heard the number of those who were
sealed, 144,000 from all the tribes of Israel:
5 From the tribe of Judah 12,000 were sealed,
from the tribe of Reuben 12,000,
from the tribe of Gad 12,000,
6 from the tribe of Asher 12,000,
from the tribe of Naphtali 12,000,
from the tribe of Manasseh 12,000,
7 from the tribe of Simeon 12,000,
from the tribe of Levi 12,000,
from the tribe of Issachar 12,000,
8 from the tribe of Zebulun 12,000,
from the tribe of Joseph 12,000,
and from the tribe of Benjamin 12,000.
Praise from the Great Multitude
9 After this I looked and saw a multitude too large
to count, from every nation and tribe and people
and tongue, standing before the throne and be-
fore the Lamb. They were wearing white robes
and holding palm branches in their hands. 10 And
they cried out in a loud voice:
“Salvation to our God,
who sits on the throne,
and to the Lamb!”
11 And all the angels stood around the throne and
around the elders and the four living creatures.
7
a 6 Greek A choenix of wheat for a denarius. A choenix was a Greek dry measure equivalent to 1.92 pints or 0.91 liters. A
denarius was customarily a day’s wage for a laborer; see Matthew 20:2. b 16 See Hosea 10:8. c 17 BYZ and TR His
Revelation 7:11 | 1107
And they fell facedown before the throne and
worshiped God, 12 saying, “Amen! Blessing
and glory and wisdom and thanks and honor
and power and strength be to our God forever
and ever! Amen.”
13 Then one of the elders addressed me: “These
in white robes,” he asked, “who are they, and
where have they come from?”
14 “Sir,” I answered, “you know.”
So he replied, “These are the ones who have
come out of the great tribulation; they have
washed their robes and made them white in the
blood of the Lamb. 15 For this reason,
they are before the throne of God
and serve Him day and night in His
temple;
and the One seated on the throne
will spread His tabernacle over them.
16 ‘Never again will they hunger,
and never will they thirst;
nor will the sun beat down upon them,
nor any scorching heat.’ a
17 For the Lamb in the center of the
throne
will be their shepherd.b
‘He will lead them to springs of living
water,’ c
and ‘God will wipe away every tear
from their eyes.’ d ”
The Seventh Seal
When the Lamb opened the seventh seal,
there was silence in heaven for about half an
hour. 2 And I saw the seven angels who stand be-
fore God, and they were given seven trumpets.
3 Then another angel, who had a golden censer,
came and stood at the altar. He was given much
incense to offer, along with the prayers of all the
saints, on the golden altar before the throne.
4 And the smoke of the incense, together with the
prayers of the saints, rose up before God from the
hand of the angel.
5 Then the angel took the censer, filled it with fire
from the altar, and hurled it to the earth; and
there were peals of thunder, rumblings, flashes
of lightning, and an earthquake.
The First Four Trumpets
6 And the seven angels with the seven trumpets
prepared to sound them.
7 Then the first angel sounded his trumpet, and
hail and fire mixed with blood were hurled down
upon the earth. A third of the earth was burned
up, along with a third of the trees and all the
green grass.
8 Then the second angel sounded his trumpet,
and something like a great mountain burning
with fire was thrown into the sea. A third of the
sea turned to blood, 9 a third of the living crea-
tures in the sea died, and a third of the ships were
destroyed.
10 Then the third angel sounded his trumpet, and
a great star burning like a torch fell from heaven
and landed on a third of the rivers and on the
springs of water. 11 The name of the star is
Wormwood. A third of the waters turned bitter
like wormwood oil,e and many people died from
the bitter waters.
12 Then the fourth angel sounded his trumpet,
and a third of the sun and moon and stars were
struck. A third of the stars were darkened, a third
of the day was without light, and a third of the
night as well.
13 And as I observed, I heard an eagle flying over-
head, calling in a loud voice, “Woe! Woe! Woe
to those who dwell on the earth, because of the
trumpet blasts about to be sounded by the re-
maining three angels!”
The Fifth Trumpet
Then the fifth angel sounded his trumpet,
and I saw a star that had fallen from heaven
to earth, and it was given the key to the pit of the
Abyss. 2 The star opened the pit of the Abyss, and
smoke rose out of it like the smoke of a great fur-
nace, and the sun and the air were darkened by
the smoke from the pit.
3 And out of the smoke, locusts descended on the
earth, and they were given power like that of the
scorpions of the earth. 4 They were told not to
harm the grass of the earth or any plant or tree,
but only those who did not have the seal of God
on their foreheads. 5 The locusts were not given
power to kill them, but only to torment them for
five months, and their torment was like the sting-
ing of a scorpion. 6 In those days men will seek
death and will not find it; they will long to die, but
death will escape them.
7 And the locusts looked like horses prepared for
battle, with something like crowns of gold on
8 9
1108 | Revelation 7:12
a 16 Isaiah 49:10 b 17 See Psalm 23:1. c 17 Isaiah 49:10 d 17 Isaiah 25:8 e 11 Literally became wormwood
their heads; and their faces were like the faces of
men. 8 They had hair like that of women, and
teeth like those of lions. 9 They also had breast-
plates like breastplates of iron, and the sound of
their wings was like the roar of many horses and
chariots rushing into battle. 10 They had tails
with stingers like scorpions, which had the
power to injure people for five months. 11 They
were ruled by a king, the angel of the Abyss. His
name in Hebrew is Abaddon,a and in Greek it is
Apollyon.b
12 The first woe has passed. Behold, two woes are
still to follow.
The Sixth Trumpet
13 Then the sixth angel sounded his trumpet, and
I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden
altar before God 14 saying to the sixth angel with
the trumpet, “Release the four angels who are
bound at the great river Euphrates.”
15 So the four angels who had been prepared for
this hour and day and month and year were re-
leased to kill a third of mankind. 16 And the num-
ber of mounted troops was two hundred million;
I heard their number.
17 Now the horses and riders in my vision looked
like this: The riders had breastplates the colors
of fire, sapphire, and sulfur. The heads of the
horses were like the heads of lions, and out of
their mouths proceeded fire, smoke, and sulfur.
18 A third of mankind was killed by the three
plagues of fire, smoke, and sulfur that proceeded
from their mouths. 19 For the power of the horses
was in their mouths and in their tails; indeed,
their tails were like snakes, having heads with
which to inflict harm.
20 Now the rest of mankind who were not killed
by these plagues still did not repent of the works
of their hands. They did not stop worshiping de-
mons and idols of gold, silver, bronze, stone, and
wood, which cannot see or hear or walk. 21 Fur-
thermore, they did not repent of their murder,
sorcery, sexual immorality, and theft.
The Angel and the Small Scroll (Ezek. 3:1–15)
Then I saw another mighty angel coming
down from heaven, wrapped in a cloud,
with a rainbow above his head. His face was like
the sun, and his legs were like pillars of fire. 2 He
held in his hand a small scroll, which lay open. He
placed his right foot on the sea and his left foot
on the land. 3 Then he cried out in a loud voice
like the roar of a lion. And when he cried out, the
seven thunders sounded their voices.
4 When the seven thunders had spoken, I was
about to put it in writing. But I heard a voice from
heaven saying, “Seal up what the seven thunders
have said, and do not write it down.”
5 Then the angel I had seen standing on the sea
and on the land lifted up his right hand to heaven.
6 And he swore by Him who lives forever and
ever, who created heaven and everything in it,
the earth and everything in it, and the sea and
everything in it: “There will be no more delay!
7 But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel,
when he begins to sound his trumpet, the mys-
tery of God will be fulfilled, just as He proclaimed
to His servants the prophets.”
8 Then the voice that I had heard from heaven
spoke to me again, saying, “Go, take the small
scroll that lies open in the hand of the angel
standing on the sea and on the land.”
9 And I went to the angel and said, “Give me the
small scroll.”
“Take it and eat it,” he said. “It will make your
stomach bitter, but in your mouth it will be as
sweet as honey.” c
10 So I took the small scroll from the angel’s hand
and ate it, and it was as sweet as honey in my
mouth. But when I had eaten it, my stomach
turned bitter.
11 And they told me, “You must prophesy again
about many peoples and nations and tongues
and kings.”
The Two Witnesses
Then I was given a measuring rod like a
staff and was told, “Go and measure the
temple of God and the altar, and count the num-
ber of worshipers there. 2 But exclude the court-
yard outside the temple. Do not measure it,
because it has been given over to the nations, and
they will trample the holy city for 42 months.
3 And I will empower my two witnesses, and
they will prophesy for 1,260 days, clothed in
sackcloth.”
4 These witnesses are the two olive trees and the
two lampstands that stand before the Lord of the
earth.d 5 If anyone wants to harm them, fire pro-
ceeds from their mouths and devours their
10
11
Revelation 11:5 | 1109
a 11 Abaddon means Destruction . b 11 Apollyon means Destroyer . c 9 See Num. 5:24 and Ezek. 3:3. d 4 See Zech. 4:14.
enemies. In this way, anyone who wants to harm
them must be killed. 6 These witnesses have
power to shut the sky so that no rain will fall dur-
ing the days of their prophecy, and power to turn
the waters into blood and to strike the earth with
every kind of plague as often as they wish.
The Witnesses Killed and Raised
7 When the two witnesses have finished their tes-
timony, the beast that comes up from the Abyss
will wage war with them, and will overpower
and kill them. 8 Their bodies will lie in the street
of the great city—figuratively called Sodom and
Egypt—where their Lord was also crucified.
9 For three and a half days all peoples and tribes
and tongues and nations will view their bodies
and will not permit them to be laid in a tomb.
10 And those who dwell on the earth will gloat
over them and celebrate and send one another
gifts, because these two prophets had tormented
them.
11 But after the three and a half days, the breath
of life from God entered the two witnesses, and
they stood on their feet, and great fear fell upon
those who saw them. 12 And the witnesses heard
a loud voice from heaven saying, “Come up here.”
And they went up to heaven in a cloud as their
enemies watched them.
13 And in that hour there was a great earthquake,
and a tenth of the city collapsed. Seven thousand
were killed in the quake, and the rest were terri-
fied and gave glory to the God of heaven.
14 The second woe has passed. Behold, the third
woe is coming shortly.
The Seventh Trumpet
15 Then the seventh angel sounded his trumpet,
and loud voices called out in heaven:
“The kingdom of the world
has become the kingdom of our Lord
and of His Christ,
and He will reign forever and ever.”
16 And the twenty-four elders who sit on their
thrones before God fell on their faces and wor-
shiped God, 17 saying:
“We give thanks to You, O Lord God
Almighty,
the One who is and who was,a
because You have taken Your great power
and have begun to reign.
18 The nations were enraged,b
and Your wrath has come.
The time has come to judge the dead c
and to reward Your servants the
prophets,
as well as the saints and those who fear Your
name,
both small and great—
and to destroy those who destroy
the earth.”
19 Then the temple of God in heaven was opened,
and the ark of His covenant appeared in His tem-
ple. And there were flashes of lightning, rum-
blings, peals of thunder, an earthquake, and a
great hailstorm.
The Woman and the Dragon
And a great sign appeared in heaven: a
woman clothed in the sun, with the moon
under her feet and a crown of twelve stars on her
head. 2 She was pregnant and crying out in the
pain and agony of giving birth.
3 Then another sign appeared in heaven: a huge
red dragon with seven heads, ten horns, and
seven royal crowns on his heads. 4 His tail swept
a third of the stars from the sky, hurling them to
the earth. And the dragon stood before the
woman who was about to give birth, ready to
devour her child as soon as she gave birth.
5 And she gave birth to a son, a male child, who
will rule all the nations with an iron scepter.d
And her child was caught up to God and to His
throne. 6 And the woman fled into the wilder-
ness, where God had prepared a place for her to
be nourished for 1,260 days.
The War in Heaven
7 Then a war broke out in heaven: Michael and
his angels fought against the dragon, and the
dragon and his angels fought back. 8 But the
dragon was not strong enough, and no longer
was any place found in heaven for him and his
angels. 9 And the great dragon was hurled
down—that ancient serpent called the devil and
Satan, the deceiver of the whole world. He was
hurled to the earth, and his angels with him.
10 And I heard a loud voice in heaven saying:
“Now have come the salvation and the power
and the kingdom of our God,
and the authority of His Christ.
12
a 17 TR includes and who is to come . b 18 See Psalm 2:1. c 18 See Daniel 12:2. d 5 See Psalm 2:9 (see also LXX).
1110 | Revelation 11:6
